# Project-291
8.5 MW biomass at Balaji Ispat Pvt limited
______________
Balaji Ispat Private Limited has set up 8.5 MW Biomass based Power Project By Balaji Ispat Private Limited Village : Belsonda, Tehsil & District : Mahasamund of Chhattisgarh state of india. 
This is Greenfield project. 
The project was commissioned in 23-Dec 2006 .
The owner of the project was changed from M/s Shivalik Power and Steel Pvt ltd to M/s Balaji Power (A unit of Hira Ferro Alloys Ltd) on 14.10.2011 as per the CSEB PPA number 02-02/SE-I/Shivalik/2063 dated 17.10.2011. 

Note - But PP has never taken any issuance during the crediting period of UCR, However PP will provide declaration letter for no double accounting signed on his letter head during the period of verification of this project activity. 


The purpose of the project is the construction and operation of a grid connected electricity generation unit using biomass (rice husk, and paddy straw). The biomass project generation facility will involve installation of a 40 TPH nominal capacity Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion Boiler. The boiler and the turbo-generator are installed with the necessary auxiliary plants and systems required for the efficient operation of the biomass based power plant.

The proposed project shall use the conventional combustion and steam-power cycle. The pressure and temperature chosen are at 67 Kg/ Sq. cm. and 480 Deg. C respectively. The pressure and temperature are less than more efficient rankine cycle plants (operating at 87 Kg/Cm2 or 105 Kg/Cm2). This lower pressure technology has been chosen to facilitate the use of biomass. will compensate for lower efficiency as well as lower Plant Load Factor (PLF) of the plant compared to normal coal fired power plants. 

Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 56961.9MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources. The estimated annual CO2e emission reductions by the project activity are expected to be 51265.71 tCO2e, whereas actual emission reduction achieved during the first CoU period shall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification. 

Since the project activity will generate electricity through biomass energy, a clean renewable energy source, it will not cause any negative impact on the environment and thereby contributes to climate change mitigation efforts.
__
PRIOR HISTORY
___________
Registered CDM Project #0369 : 8.5 MW Biomass based Power Project
___________________
CDM Authorized Participants: M/s Shivalik Power & steel (P) Ltd
_____________
CDM Registration Date	05 Jun 06 
__________________  
Crediting Period	23 Dec 06 - 22 Dec 13 (Renewable - Expired)
Changed from: 01 Jun 06 - 31 Mar 13
Renewal no longer possible
_________________________
CDM  Issuance 
Monitoring report: 23 Dec 2006 - 14 Jun 2007 
Issuance request state: Issued
CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 18353
_____________________
Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-36415311-1-1-0-369      
Block end: IN-5-36433663-1-1-0-369
_____________________
Monitoring report: 15 Jun 2007 - 14 Dec 2007 
Issuance request state: Issued
CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 14573
__________________
Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-40679892-1-1-0-369      Block end: IN-5-40694464-1-1-0-369
_____________________________________

Monitoring report: 15 Dec 2007 - 14 Aug 2008 
Issuance request state: Issued
CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 26708
_________________
Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-76986073-1-1-0-369      Block end: IN-5-77012780-1-1-0-369
_____________________
Monitoring report: 15 Aug 2008 - 14 Mar 2009 
Issuance request state: Issued
CERs requested up to 31 December 2012: 24139
____________________
Serial Range: Block start: IN-5-97311375-1-1-0-369      Block end: IN-5-97335513-1-1-0-369
